# Game Review for Zero Ranger

## Zero Ranger is a vertical scrolling shoot 'em up game, where the player is defending the earth from aliens invadaing called green and orange.

### Zero Ranger
https://store.steampowered.com/app/809020/ZeroRanger/

### Rating
I give this game a 4.4 out of 5 stars
## Summary
This game is about... this should be at least 3-4 paragraphs summarising the gameplay mechanics of the game. You should be answering the who, what, when, where, why, and how of the game itself.
  In the game you are piloting one of two ships and moving through multiple levels with waves of aliens attacking earth. The player is moving through trying to survive the enemies onslaught and rack up as many points as the player can inorder to earn more health and extra lives. The player has life points that get decreased when damaged by an enemies, starting at three, when depleted to zero the player will be ask to give up or use a continue slot. The player starts out with no continues slots but over time and gaining points the player can earn up to ten that can be used each playthrough. The player can earn more health, after enough points are collected the player gains additional health.
  
  The ships start out with a starting gun set to the players fire one button.This gun is the primary, do it all gun, the is great for clearing waves of enemies and hitting bosses. At the end of each level is an enemy fighter ship and a level boss, one both are defeated the game gives the player a choice of two power ups each meant to do the role with different styles. Example is after the first boss, is given a choice of power ups that are used to deal with threats from behind and on the sides of the players ship, so anywhere that the main gun cannot reach. The first power up is a flame blast from the rear thrusters that shoots out in a short range at in a fan, dealing more damage the closer the target is to the origin of the flame. The other power up is an electric attack that shoots out on the left and right side of the ship and at a 45% angle infront of the ship. Both power ups are great for dealing with enemies not directly in front of the ship. The two ships have differences in their attacks, the first ship has a more bullet like it its weapons and the attacks are smaller but deal more damage. The second ship haves an energy or electric look its their attack, and the attacks are much bigger and hit multiple enemies but deal less damage with each hit. The power ups are different for the ships as well but still fit the theme of the ships.
  The game levels are set up where the level has the vertical scrolling and the enemies are flying in with different types of enemies. The levels can be in open space leaving combat very wide and easy to dodge attacks or inside a mining shaft where the player is more confined to a limiting space for dodging attacks. Towards the end of the levels there is an enemies fighter which serves as a sort of pre-boss. The fighter is another ship just like the players and has its own attack styles. The fighter has more health can the normal enemies but less health than a boss. After the fighter is the boss fight that the player has to defeat inorder to progress to the next level.

## Final Thoughts
I really enjoyed playing the game, the soundtrack was amazing. Everytime I died and had to reset the areas I could never be too upset because I would get to listen to the levels soundtrack another time. The was more on the difficult end but not on an unbareable level. The game is just hard enough to make the player want to improve and try again and get further and further seeing the progressing. I played the game using an xbox controller and it played great, when I did try to play on the keyboard however, the experience was not the greatest, do able but I would much rather have a controller. The GUI for remapping keys was cluttered making the proces
## Additional Information
Links to other reviews or other information you used in this review.
